Problem faced by users:
It's difficult and uninteresting to get started exploring family history. Most existing services require you to create an account, know about genelogy, or understand common geneoloigical facts/terms.

Existing Solutions:
Many current tools for reasearching and sharing family history exist, but none use a simple, engaging map animation to tell the story like MapMyStory does.

Solution App Provides:
Mapmystory makes it fun, easy, and interesting to understand the various places of your or your family's migration story and to see them instantly on a map. We live in an increasingly mobile and interconnected world. Many people are interested in exploring their family history, especially where their parents, grandparents, or great grandpaerents lived in the world. Particularly in the United States, our rich and diverse history as a nation of immigrants makes it exciting to explore how many different stories combine together into a single narrative.

How the app provides it:
Our web app transforms the name of the town that your grandmother raised your mother in, for example, from just a name to a visual spot on the globe--connecting their story to yours. MapMyStory allows users to create their own story, share it with others, and see it in context among other users' stories.

We use a fast and intiutive geocoder to instantly map out each geographic location the user enters. The main page prompts the user to enter location points such as where you LIVE, where THEY grew up, where their PARENTS grew up, where their GRANDPARENTS are from and so on. The user can then add notes about each place to their story map. Once a user submits their entry, these points are then connected together by an animation that draws a continuous line between each geogrpahic point. The user's story is then sharable!

Background:

Mapymystory is a project started in October at Chi Hack Night, a group of citizens who gather to share civic tech. A beta version was developed for an art exhibition curated by , which featured art by a variety of migrants. Mapmystory was used to bring these stories together, and to combine the rich divserse family histories with intuitive and easy to understand visualizations of their family stories.

Walkthrough:

When you first visit the Map My Story web app, you will see a randomly chosen story map from exisiting submissions. You can click, zoom in on, and interact with this story map, see another story map, or submit your own.

When you choose to submit your own story, our geocoder input box will slide out, allowing you to enter in the geographic points of your family's migration story. Simply type into the geocoder and you will see suggested place names pop up.

Once you see the location you are looking for, select it and a point will appear on the map at that place. 

You can then confirm this point or undo it if you made a mistake. You can also add a note to associate with this point. Once confirmed, you can add another point. Once you've added at least two points, you have the option to finish your submission, but we recommend adding as many points as you can. 

Once you've added all your points, you can optionally add additional notes to sum up your entire story. Once you're done and confirm, you'll see the points connect together!

MapMyStory is flexible. For example, users can choose to enter just THEIR individual migration story versus their FAMILY'S history.
Need:

Photos from event, hack night.
App walkthrough screen capture on a browser.
Mobile walkthrough if possible. 
Additional videos: Have people record themselves using the site? [no time for that atm]

Value prop:
A fun, modern interactive front end that can drive users to other platforms or serve as an interface to other family history apis.

Frontend and backend data structure. 
